---
layout: post
title: "Chewy's IPO: Customer Analytics and Valuation using Probability Models"
subtitle: 
category: customer_analytics
image_featured:
image_root: 
postdiscalimer:
---

**Chewy, Inc., the pure-play online pet retailer, IPO’d on June 14, 2019 at a $9.3 billion valuation.** With its S-1 filing, Chewy provided limited - but just enough - disclosure on its customers to allow for a rich analysis of customer acquisition, retention, and economics. Utilizing probability models and methodology based on Customer-Based Corporate Valuation(1), this report provides a unique analysis of Chewy’s customer dynamics, economics, and valuation.

<!--more-->

### Key insights:

**Customer acquisition likely peaked in 2018**, despite increasing marketing spend as Chewy hits the inflection point with new customer acquisition decelerating going forward.
- **Chewy loses approximately 40% of new customers after one year**, stabilizing thereafter.
- **Slowing, but still meaningful growth in active customers ahead**. Active customers is projected to grow by 27% in 2019 and 16% in 2020.
- **Customer Acquisition Costs (“CAC”) of $65 in 2018 and Post-Acquisition Value (“PAV”) of approximately $300 per customer acquired.**
- Profitable customer economics: **36% IRR, 4-year payback, and PAV/CAC of 4.5x for new customers in 2018.**
- **A customer-based valuation of $3.7 billion, 74% lower than Chewy’s current market value of $14.3 billion.** The valuation result is driven by insufficient contribution margin from Chewy’s current and future customers to offset fixed costs and drive meaningful profit on an NPV-basis.

## Contents

- [Contents](#contents)
- [The Data](#the-data)


## The Data

Chewy includes one of the most informative charts in its S-1 filing: _Annual Net Sales by Cohort_, also known as "C3" or "Customer-Cohort-Chart". This chart is useful on its own as it shows the annual revenue generated by each cohort of customers over time. In Chewy’s case, net sales for each cohort is flat-to-increasing over time – meaning that growth in net sales per customer is more than offsetting customer churn. This dynamic is the building block of Chewy’s stellar growth to date: while Chewy needs to keep acquiring new customers, its existing customers are providing "embedded" revenue growth of over 20% per year.

The drawback with the C3 chart is that it co-mingles two processes: number of active customers (retention) and spend per customer. Thankfully, Chewy provides a second useful chart: Net _Sales per Active Customer by Cohort_.

The above chart shows an impressive increase in spend per active customer the longer a cohort exists, although it is important to realize the increase over time is at least in part because customers who churn in any given year will presumably have lower average spend than those who stay. Nonetheless, **the average active customer across the cohorts is spending $503 in year 2 (the first full year as a customer), increasing to $711 in year 5** – a clear indication of increasing spend per customer given the retention curve flattens out after the first couple years. This is also reflected in the C3 chart above with increasing total net sales per cohort over time.

More importantly, with the two above charts from Chewy’s S-1 filing, along with select line-item disclosure, **we can model the entire customer acquisition and retention process for Chewy on a cohort-by-cohort basis.**

Note: all the charts to follow are a result of our analysis. “Actual” refers to information both _explicitly_ and _implicitly_ disclosed by Chewy. Some of these datapoints and calculations are approximations. “Model” refers to the probability models we fit to the data.

The first analysis we can do is to transform explicit disclosure into implicit information on customer acquisition and survival curves for recent cohorts.